For this project, I wanted to find a way to model the influence of semantic concreteness, the relationship between a lexical item and its tangible reference, on the behavior and interactions of words in semantic space. 
More specifically, I was curious to see if semantic clustering could be performed using normalized human-derived input, rather than as contextual distance vectors. I will use these associations to create a multidimensional vector set based on the most effi cient path that exists between the cue and target pairs.
While the phrase “similarity” is sometimes used to refer to the cosine similarity calculated and utilized in Bayesian modeling, similarity in the context of this report is strictly semantic. 
Contextual identifi cation of semantically consistent phrases is much more diffi cult to establish for computers than contextual co-occurrence (Hill et al., CL 2015), and as such, data provided by humans allows the model to account for both concrete and abstract concepts in conversational language based on intuition. 
Free Association fi nds the distribution of normalized response triggers given a starting phrase, where participants were given sets of minimal pair responses and asked to score the level of associativity provided.
For this project, I will be using information from SimLex-999 and the University of South Florida’s Free Association Norms. SimLex-999 represents a series of minimal pairs using 666 noun-noun pairs , 222 verb-verb pairs, and 111 adjective-adjective pairs. 
For example, "coast" and "shore" would have a much higher rating than "clothes" and "closet", while the two would be rated much closer using Euclidean distance relativity like WordSim-353 (Finkelstein et al. 2002).
I will also be using data from the University of Southern Florida Free Association Norms, which uses normalized pairs of Cue and Target words and generates an associativity score based on the strength of their association. Based on this normalization, forward strength or FSG (Nelson et al., CL 1998) is used to describe the associativity score of the forward path from Cue to Target. 
Other fields, such as backwards strength (BSG) and overlapping strength (OSG), will not be considered for this project.
